"Does the company assess its direct and indirect dependencies and impacts on biodiversity and ecosystems?"
"Does the company incorporate biodiversity and ecosystem assessments into its policies?"
"Does the company understand the state of ecosystems it depends on for natural resources and services?"
"Has the company developed a strategy to address the business implications of ecosystem overexploitation or degradation?"
"Does the company have a policy for managing critical habitats with the ambition of no net loss of biodiversity?"
"For companies involved in agricultural value chains, do they have a policy for sustainable farming and a plan for implementation?"
"Has the company taken action to eliminate deforestation and peatland loss from its business activities and value chains by 2025?"
"Has the company committed to eliminating the conversion of other remaining natural ecosystems by 2030?"
"Has the company identified material physical and transition risks related to biodiversity and ecosystems?"
"Are these risks incorporated into the company's risk framework?"
"Does the company manage its dependency on natural resources to ensure ecosystem sustainability?"
Does the company engage with its value chain to seek circular economy solutions?
Are biodiversity and ecosystems included in the company’s environmental impact assessments?
Does the company adopt a precautionary approach where there is a risk of significant biodiversity and ecosystem impacts?
Does the company disclose its processes to identify, assess, and manage material risks related to deforestation and other land use changes?
For companies involved in agricultural value chains, do they work with suppliers to implement sustainable farming techniques?
Does the company monitor suppliers that deliver forest-linked products to ensure adherence to best practices for environmental management?
Disclosure and Reporting
Does the company disclose whether and how biodiversity and ecosystems form part of its strategies, policies, and commitments?
Does the company disclose any ecosystems it materially depends on?
Are material impacts of the company’s activities, products, and services on biodiversity and ecosystems disclosed?
For companies involved in agricultural value chains, do they regularly disclose information about their environmental footprint?
Is the company transparent about its supply chains, including the geographic origin of commodities and levels of traceability?
Engagement with Policymakers and Stakeholders
Does the company have policies for engaging responsibly with policymakers and regulators on biodiversity and ecosystems?
Is the company transparent about its position on evolving regulation relevant to its business?
Does the company disclose and regularly review memberships of trade associations and interest groups?
Does the company support the development of best practices to reduce adverse impacts on biodiversity and ecosystems?
Does the company collaborate with stakeholders such as NGOs, local communities, and international institutions to reduce its operational impacts on biodiversity and ecosystems?
Does the company respect the rights of indigenous people and local communities, including their right to free, prior, and informed consent?
Does the company avoid disruptive operations in internationally recognized areas such as natural UNESCO World Heritage Sites?
Does the company avoid contributing to the reduction of Critically Endangered or Endangered Species on the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species?