Does the company understand the social and business implications of children's rights and integrate findings into its strategic business planning?
Does the company make a public commitment regarding respect for children's rights, including the elimination of child labor in all business activities and relationships?
Does the company adopt strategies and policies based on international principles, industry standards, and best practices addressing children's rights across its operations and value chain?
Does the company seek opportunities for promoting children's rights?
Do company policies include measures for the identification, prevention, mitigation, and remediation of adverse impacts on children's rights arising from direct operations, supply chains, and other business relationships, as well as from the marketing and use of its products and services?
Does the company regularly consider whether its organizational structure, incentive systems, training programs, and wider company culture reflect and integrate respect for human rights?
Are employees and contractors engaged in these efforts and made aware of company policies and practices?
Does the company recognize that the well-being of children is contingent on the well-being of adult employees as their carers, and seek to provide decent work and living wages for young workers, parents, and carers?
Has the company considered putting in place a mechanism for third-party expert input into its children's rights strategies and policies?
Does the company identify and assess salient risks related to children's rights in its business operations, supply chains (including raw material sourcing), and other business relationships, as well as the marketing and use of products and services?
Does the company specify actions to address identified risks, including cessation, prevention, mitigation, and remediation of adverse impacts on children's rights?
Are the company's priorities guided by the size, nature, and context of its operations and the severity of the risks of adverse impacts on children's rights?
Does the company define qualitative and quantitative indicators to monitor and track its impact on children's rights?
Does the company track the performance of preventive and corrective actions?
Does the company carry out relevant impact and risk assessments before making significant investments in new business activities, such as mergers and acquisitions, entering new countries, launching new products and services, and establishing new business relationships?
Does the company have an adequate supply chain management system incorporating children's rights considerations, including policies for detecting and preventing supply chain child labor?
Does the company have in place monitoring systems, contractual clauses, incentives, and corrective instruments, such as education and training, to prevent child labor in the supply chain?
Does the company publicly disclose its commitment, strategy, policies, and processes on respecting children's rights?
Does the company report on its implementation of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and other relevant international standards?
Does the company disclose action plans, governance structures, operational procedures, risk and impact assessments, and information about stakeholder relationships and remediation processes, where appropriate?
Is the information communicated in a relevant and accessible manner, demonstrating explicit and active commitment from senior management?
Does the company identify, monitor, and report on the status of relevant topics, using metrics that enable year-on-year comparison in line with applicable internationally accepted reporting standards or initiatives?
Does the company disclose information at an appropriate level of detail on activities in high-risk sectors and geographical areas, and be open about dilemmas and priorities?
Where appropriate, does the company report the above information for supply chains and other business relationships, taking a full value-chain perspective?
Engage Transparently and Responsibly on Children's Rights, Including through Grievance Mechanisms
Does the company have policies for engaging constructively with policymakers and regulators on children's rights, and is it transparent about those policies or guidelines?
Does the company outline its position on specific regulations relevant to its business profitability and outlook, and consider promoting policies supportive of children's rights?
Does the company understand its social and environmental impact on the communities surrounding its direct operations, supply chains, and other business relationships, as well as on the users of its products and services, explicitly recognizing children as stakeholders?
Does the company develop appropriate policies and mechanisms for engaging with children, parents, and carers on aspects of the business affecting children to gain a better understanding of their actual or potential impact on children's rights?
Where relevant, does the company engage with industry peers, business partners, and local stakeholders on children's rights issues, both in collecting necessary information and research, and in developing preventive and corrective action plans?
Does the company establish or participate in effective and accessible operational-level grievance mechanisms for adverse impacts on children's rights arising from its direct operations, supply chains, and other business relationships, making these mechanisms accessible to children and their representatives where appropriate?