Does the company understand its impact or dependence on ocean sustainability and incorporate this into its policies?
Does the company assess ocean-related business opportunities in its strategic planning?
Does the company consider the impact of its activities, products, and services on the ocean when investing in innovation, research, and development?
For companies involved in wild-caught fisheries, do they incorporate projections for future marine resource availability into their planning?
For companies engaged in the plastics value chain, do they have a strategy addressing a transition towards a circular economy?
Does the company regularly review its organizational structure, incentive systems, training programs, and company culture to integrate sustainable business practices?
Are employees and contractors engaged in sustainable ocean management efforts and aware of company policies and practices?
Does the company identify material market, regulatory, and environmental ocean risks and incorporate these into its risk framework?
Does the company identify and monitor risks arising from the sourcing, use, and disposal of its products and packaging?
Does the company engage with suppliers, customers, consumers, waste management companies, and regulators to minimize the negative impact on the ocean?
For companies developing infrastructure or performing activities that may adversely affect ocean sustainability, do they perform thorough impact assessments and adopt a precautionary approach?
For companies buying or selling wild-caught fish, do they monitor that these activities do not involve overfished stocks or illegal, unregulated, or unreported fishing?
For companies involved in agriculture, mining, waste management, and other activities that can result in land-based marine pollution, do they work towards preventing or significantly reducing such pollution?
Does the company disclose how ocean sustainability forms part of its strategies, policies, and commitments?
Does the company disclose outcomes of its activities, products, and services that may affect the ocean?
Does the company disclose information at an appropriate level of detail, depending on its nature and sensitivity?
Is the company transparent about products and services that rely on a healthy ocean, the source of ocean-based resources, and business sensitivity to future availability of these resources?
Does the company provide consistent disclosures to relevant stakeholders and comply with applicable internationally accepted reporting standards?
Does the company have policies or guidelines for engaging with policymakers and regulators on ocean-related issues?
Does the company publicly outline its position on evolving regulation relevant to its business?
Does the company disclose and regularly review memberships of trade associations, interest groups, or other initiatives which perform advocacy on its behalf?
Does the company seek and support the development of relevant standards, certifications, and best practices to promote ocean sustainability?
Does the company act responsibly in managing activities in poorly regulated sectors and geographies?
Does the company support regulatory efforts or cooperate with stakeholders to find private sector-led responses to ocean-related risks or opportunities?
Does the company respect collective efforts towards ocean sustainability, such as the protection of marine areas, biodiversity, or ecosystems?