Does the company recognize its dependency and impact on water resources?
Does the company integrate commitments to sustainable water management into its policies?
Does the company have a clear water management strategy?
Does the company take a long-term approach to understanding the business, social, and environmental implications of corporate water needs?
Does the company incorporate relevant water challenges, opportunities, and sustainability considerations into investment planning?
Does the company consider research and development to reduce water dependency, use, or discharge?
Does the company regularly review its organizational structure, incentive systems, training programs, and company culture to integrate sustainable business practices?
Are employees and contractors engaged in sustainable water management efforts and aware of company policies and practices?
Does the company consider third-party expert input into its water management strategy?
Does the company identify and incorporate water risk in a robust and integrated framework?
Does the company quantify the financial impacts of water risk?
Does the company monitor water withdrawals, consumption, and quality?
Does the company identify and implement relevant adaptation and mitigation measures to avoid or reduce water risks?
Does the company adopt industry standards and best practices in sustainable water management?
Does the company identify and monitor water risks in its supply chains, including in agriculture?
Does the company implement relevant procurement policies for products and services to mitigate water risks?
Does the company engage with strategic suppliers to share best practices in sustainable water management?
Does the company disclose its water management strategy, risks, responses, and opportunities?
Does the company report in accordance with relevant sustainability disclosure standards?
Does company reporting reflect that water risks are region- and asset-specific, including coordinates of key installations and basin-level information?
Does the company report proportions of total water withdrawals and consumption in regions with high water stress?
Does the company develop a framework to monitor and set benchmarks, key performance indicators, and targets for water management?
Does the company report on indicators and progress against targets at a sufficient level of detail?
Does the company report sufficiently granular data to internationally recognized reporting initiatives?
Is the company transparent on data reported to regulators and does it strive to report such data across operations?
Does the company strive to report relevant data for supply chains and products and services?
Does the company have policies or guidelines for engaging with policymakers, regulators, and stakeholders on water management?
Is the company transparent about associated spending, activities, and trade association memberships?
Does the company assess whether the advocacy positions of trade associations align with its own positions?
If the company engages with regulators, does it publicly outline its position on specific water regulation relevant to its business?
Does the company consider promoting policies supporting the efficient use of water?
Does the company understand its social and environmental impact on the communities surrounding its operations and supply chains?
Does the company seek to contribute to local populations retaining necessary access to water?
Does the company consider engaging in collective river basin management efforts?
Does the company collaborate with communities, NGOs, and other relevant organizations on water sustainability programs?